[Music]
the alien signals mystery may finally
have been solved some people believe
that life exists nowhere else in the
universe except here on planet Earth
others are sure that there must be
living creatures including intelligent
ones somewhere in faraway galaxies both
sides of the debate can provide a number
of arguments supporting their points of
view but until recently outer space has
been pretty successful at withholding
its secrets well strap in friends
because we're taking you to the final
frontier put on your thinking caps
because Brightside is bringing you some
exciting news from the world of
astrophysics
what makes humankind beautiful is our
innate desire to discover the unknown
our quest and thirst for knowledge keeps
us exploring and look how far it's
gotten us already we've learned a lot
about the universe but there's still so
much we don't know one mystery in
particular has been tormenting the minds
of scientists for years in 2007
researchers caught some weird radio
signals coming from a place billions of
light-years away
and these strange sounds definitely got
their attention the 2007 signals weren't
the first radio signal scientists ever
heard coming from deep space there's
something known as fast radio bursts fr
bees and can be described as short
pulses of radio flashes arriving from
the Galactic outskirts of the universe
these bursts whose exact sources are
completely unknown to us last a tiny
fraction of a second and usually appear
alone
they also come at random so it's really
hard to study them but there is one
exception out of the 30 known fast radio
curses one keeps flashing again and
again and its name is FRB one two one
one zero two man we should think of a
nickname for this thing why did this
exact radio burst mystify the scientists
their curiosity stemmed from the fact
that nobody knew what was producing such
repeating sharp flashes so they could
only come up with different theories
which range from colliding stars to
artificially coded messages or maybe et
phoning home researchers at the
harvard-smithsonian Center for
Astrophysics supposed that the source of
these FRBS could be a gigantic
transmitter twice the size of Earth
powered by sunlight a special system
using water to cool this device would
help it fight the sun's extreme heat
regarding the need for such a huge
amount of power well it could move
interstellar light sails the transmitter
would send an uninterrupted beam that
would drive the sail
and we on earth see it only as a series
of flashes because our galaxies as well
as the sale itself and its mother planet
move relative to each other that sounds
way more complicated than good
old-fashioned wind sails this is just
one of the theories that have been
suggested over a decade yet none of them
have been proven but astronomers have
recently made an astonishing
announcement they believe they found the
source of the mysterious alien signals
FRB one two one one zero two these
unusually strong extra galactic beeps
seem to be arriving from a massive black
hole or an unprecedented ly powerful
neutron star located more than three
billion light-years from our planet in a
potent interstellar nebula
whatever and wherever the thing is it
means that somewhere out there in the
celestial beyond there's an incredibly
magnetized region with an extreme
environment and this is a unique
discovery could it mean that intelligent
life exists besides here on earth well
scientists still can't completely reject
the albeit unorthodox theory about an
alien civilization emitting FRB one two
one one zero to the detection of the
first fast radio bursts goes back to
2001 when some data received from
Australia's Parkes telescope was
documented but simply laughed and
neglected in the archives by the way the
dish of the telescope that caught two
signals is 200 feet in diameter and the
telescope itself is kind of a celebrity
it played a huge role in getting live
images of Apollo 11 landing on the moon
in 1969
pretty cool huh in 2007 astronomers were
revising the archives and found the
documentation of the radio bursts since
then over 25 random ones have been
recorded but FRB 1 2 1 1 0 2 is unique
astronomers have already observed as
many as 200 high-energy radio pulses
emitted by it in just five years of
study an international research team had
been working diligently at the
University of California Berkeley to
solve the mystery of the signals they
used the Robert C bird Green Bank
telescope in West Virginia and Puerto
Rico's Arecibo telescope in their
research still it was hard work since
the radio pulses are quite weak and even
the largest radio telescopes in the
world have a limited field of view in
other words you need to be extra lucky
choosing the correct time and looking in
the right direction
however the scientists discovered that
the direction and the time coincided the
source of the bursts lies in a
star-forming area of a Dorf galaxy and
the electromagnetic waves that create
the bursts follow an absolutely unique
pattern it means that they originate
from a place with a magnetic field
that's incredibly strong such fields can
be found near neutron stars or massive
black holes like the ones in the Centers
of galaxies the thing is that the bursts
of FRB one two one one zero two are
polarized it's an effect called Faraday
rotation which deforms radio waves if
they pass a magnetic field to put it in
layman's terms your sunglasses work the
same way by filtering bright sunlight
but there's a connection
the stronger magnetic field is the more
radio waves twist
as for FRB one two one one zero two the
deformation of the waves is
unprecedented if we're talking about
sources of astronomical radio waves this
led to the conclusion that the field
these signals pass is unbelievably
strong so the source might be close to a
supermassive black hole regarding our
own Milky Way galaxy
scientists know only of a few sources
emitting such twisted signals and all of
them are located in the galactic center
near a huge black hole it's an extreme
place and the object sending the pulses
must be extreme as well
astronomers are calling this unique
phenomenon one of the greatest mysteries
of modern astrophysics Jason hassles
associate professor of the University of
Amsterdam and his team of researchers
believed that the source of the bursts
could be a rotating neutron star whose
home is a place with a harsh magnetic
environment for example a black hole at
sucking in dust and gas and therefore
still growing neutron stars or magnet
ours which have a super strong magnetic
field hence the name appear as a result
of explosions imagine a star 10 or even
20 times more massive than our Sun it
bursts in a supernova blowing off its
outer layer this leaves behind a small
dream lead n score that keeps collapsing
in on itself due to the influence of
gravity merging protons and electrons to
create neutrons neutron stars are so
dense that if you could take just one
tiny teaspoon of their matter it would
weigh billions of tons
what's more such a star has two billion
times stronger gravity than we have on
earth imagine stepping on a weight scale
under those conditions that's why a
neutron star is a plausible source of
FRB one two one one zero two the
duration of the bursts has a direct
connection with the size of the object
creating them the short of the bursts
the smaller the object that's why a
small neutron star with a diameter of 6
miles could easily emit bursts that only
lasts a few thousandths of a second
another argument supporting this theory
is an example we have in our own galaxy
it's an energetic and young neutron star
whose radio missions resemble those of
FRB one two one one zero two
so the source of the signals could be
either a neutron star
aka magnetar that interacts with a cloud
of particles left after the explosion of
the original star or a neutron star that
interacts with extremely magnetized
winds that appeared due to its rotation
the astronomers from the
harvard-smithsonian Center for
Astrophysics have been trying to
calculate the number of potential FRBS
occurring in the part of the universe we
can observe the results are quite
shocking at least one fast radio bursts
goes off in some place every second if
they were visible to the human eye it
would look like the whole sky was
flashing but instead of flashes there
are radio waves
if the scientists could catch and record
all the fast radio bursts they would
probably be able to probe the
intervening material across gigantic
distances careful research of this
intervening material would provide us
with a better understanding of different
cosmic components like ordinary matter
dark energy and dark matter it's
important as after all they affect how
fast the universe expands all in all
hessel compares the radio births with
flashlights that illuminate for us all
the things that we can't see otherwise
unfortunately astronomers haven't yet
reached a consensus about the source of
FRB one two one one zero two but they
still assure us that there are a couple
of potential natural more orthodox
sources that could be emitting the
pulses so it's probably not about little
green men or is it bonus the sun's
influence on our planet not all the
mysteries of space dwell in faraway
places there are things about our own
Sun we are still learning about for the
first time in the history of astronomy
model calculations show that changes in
solar activity may seriously influence
our climate together with human induced
climate change and natural climate
shifts earth's temperature largely
depends on solar activity as it changes
so does the intensity of the sunlight
that reaches the surface of the earth
according to scientists in the next 100
years the sun's activity will lead to a
significant temperature change on earth
decreasing it by half a degree so where
will it leave us which theory about the
origins of fast radio bursts do you
believe tell us in the comments below
share this video with your friends and
don't forget to give us a thumbs up for
sharing these cosmic secrets